
OUTDOOR COOKING

Cooking and eating are an adventure. Eating is fun and so is fixing food to
eat. There are so many activities that offer an opportunity to cook and eat.
There is just something about camp cooking that is special. Cooking outdoors
requires a different set of rules and equipment. Take time to plan some
activities that will include food preparation, whether it is brought in a
paper sack or food that will be prepared by the boys. Even cooking a hot dog
or marshmallow can be a real challenge - having it cook just right and not
burnt. Cooking is a skill and cooking outdoors with charcoal, wood or a
buddy burner will take some skill. Take time to talk about what you plan to
cook, discuss safety and practice fire building.

It is fun to beat eggs, mix pancakes, make a milkshake or cherry cobbler. It
can be lots of fun as long as you know what you are doing. Don't be too
ambitious to start with, remember the age of boys you are working with. Do
simple recipes and progress as their skills develop. Outdoor food does not
have to be cooked. A good lunch can be part of the day without having to
take time out to cook. Maybe the first venture could be an after school
snack.

SAFETY AND GOOD COOKING HABITS

Start out by getting yourself ready to cook.

   * Protect your clothes from spills by putting on an apron; then wash your
     hands.
   * Read the entire recipe carefully.
   * Organize the bowls, spoons, pans and other equipment that you will
     need.
   * Read and know about making fires and fire safety.
   * Have all the ingredients for the recipe. Measure ingredients
     accurately. Follow the recipe mixing the ingredients.
   * While the product is cooking, put things away and clean up your work
     area.
   * Stay near your food. If you forget them, they will cook too long and
     burn.
   * Turn pot handles away from the edge so no one will bump the handle and
     cause pot to spill.
   * Always use potholders when handling hot pans. Keep all towels, pot
     holders, clothes and hair away from the flames.
   * Learn how to use a knife.

OUTDOOR COOKING HINTS

   * Pack charcoal in a paper egg carton and tie shut. When ready to use,
     just light the carton.
   * For a wood fire, use candle pieces wrapped (like candy) in wax paper.
     Light the paper and the wax will keep it going long enough to ignite
     your kindling.
   * Handy fire starters (never-fail) can be made by placing one charcoal
     briquette in each section of an egg carton (paper kind). Cover with
     melted wax. Tear apart and use.
   * Handy fire starter. Save lint out of lint filter in clothes dryer.
   * Place lint under kindling and use as tinder.
   * Put a burger fresh from the grill into the bun and place in a plastic
     bag for about a minute. The bun will be steamed warm.
   * Let a pan or bucket of water heat on the fire while you eat and your
     dish water will be ready when you are.
   * Melted paraffin, applied inside and outside a cooler leak will seal it.
   * A bar of soap will stay clean on a cookout if kept in the end of an old
     stocking and hung in a tree.
   * For safety, always keep a bucket of water nearby when cooking outside.
   * When camping, choose foods that keep well with little or no
     refrigeration. Check out instant and dehydrated foods.
   * Cool the ice chest before you fill it. The ice will last much longer.
   * Cans of frozen juice can help keep other foods cold when packing your
     ice chest.
   * Freeze fresh meat before putting in cooler. It will last longer and
     also help keep other foods cold. Even make hamburger patties and freeze
     with double paper between each.
   * Give yourself plenty of time to start a fire and wait for wood or
     briquettes to be ready.
   * Brush grates of a grill with oil to prevent meat from sticking.
   * Don't forget to rub the outside of metal pans with liquid detergent -
     it sure helps when it comes time to clean up.

COOKING TRICKS

You won't want to spend your whole day cooking while in camp. In the
beginning, cooking will take up a lot of your time, but soon you'll learn a
number of tricks that will get you out of the "kitchen" quickly.

One of the most important tricks in camp cookery is to have exactly the
right kind of fire ready for the job on hand when you start cooking- quick
flames if you have boiling to do, low flames for stewing, a bed of glowing
coals for frying and broiling.

In the kitchen at home, your oven can be set for the exact temperature
called for in a recipe. When camping, you can come close to determining
correct temperature by learning the trick of counting seconds while holding
your palm in at place where food will go.

A cookbook will call for specific measurements by the teaspoon, tablespoon,
or cup. In camp, your fingers and palm will do. The measurements on the next
page are for the average hand. Find out how they fit your hand by testing
them at home against a measuring spoon and cup.

As you pick up other cooking tricks, make a note of them. You will find that
they will come in handy sooner or later.

BUILDING A FIRE

Before you cook outdoors you must have a fire. Remember that the fire makes
the success of the cooking. Learn when to have a quick hot fire, when to
have good coals, when to plan for a fire that burns for a long while.
Firebuilding and cooking go hand in hand.

Building a fire is a big responsibility. Build a fire only where and if you
have permission. You need a grown up around when building a fire. Care of
the fire and fire prevention becomes the responsibilities of the person who
lights the match. A good camper knows not only how to light a fire, but also
how to put it out. When he is finished, he makes sure every ember is out and
cleans up the fire site.

Wood Fires

Have and safe and suitable place for your fire. It could be built in a park,
a campsite or a driveway. Clear away anything that can burn - leaves, grass,
paper,etc.

Have a bucket of water ready to put out the fire.

Collect your equipment before you start.

For a fire to burn three things are required:

   * FUEL - material that will burn.
   * HEAT - enough heat to bring fuel to ignition.
   * AIR - to provide oxygen for burning process.

When one of the three things is removed, the fire stops burning. Water cools
fuel below ignition point, dirt cuts off the oxygen supply.

A fire needs three different kinds of fire material - tinder, kindling and
fuel. The match lights the tender, the tender lights the kindling, and the
kindling starts the fuel burning.

   * TINDER - should start to burn as soon as it is touched with a lighted
     match. Use thin twigs, tops of dried weeds, wood shavings, dryer lint,
     etc.
   * KINDLING - is little sticks and can be as small as a pencil or as thick
     as your thumb.
   * FUEL - is the larger wood that keeps your fire going. Do not use green
     or freshly cut wood, it does not burn well.

Stack the wood in three separate piles far enough away from the fire, so
that no sparks can fly into stacks.

Building Your Fire

Using larger pieces of wood, form an "A" on the ground. Get your tinder and
kindling. You will need two handfuls of kindling. Put the tinder on the "A"
instead of the ground. This way the tinder has air underneath it and there
is space for your match.

Light the match. Kneel near the fire and strike the match away from you. Tip
the match down so that the flame catches on the match stick. On a windy day,
kneel with your back to the wind and cup your hands around the match.

Now light the tinder. Carefully add more tinder. You may need to blow at the
base of the fire.

Add kindling. When the tinder has started to burn, add kindling. Start with
small pieces. Remember to keep close together but allow space for air.

Types of Fire

   * TEPEE FIRE: This a good fire for quick cooking since the heat is
     concentrated on one spot. It looks like a tepee. Stack the fuel over
     the foundation fire. The foundation fire will start the fuel burning.
     Add fuel as you need it.
   * CRISSCROSS FIRE: This type is long lasting and makes good coals. It is
     good for a campfire. To make this, lay fuel over the foundation fire in
     a crisscross pattern. Be sure to leave room for air. Add fuel as
     needed.
   * REFLECTOR BAKING: This type of fire is built against a high back of
     rocks or logs; a wire screening over coals is good for roasting corn.

After you are finished with your fire make sure it is out by:

   * Scattering ashes or embers
   * Sprinkling with water
   * Drenching charred logs
   * Covering with dirt or sand

When you can hold your hand on the spot where the fire was and not feel any
warmth, your fire is out.

Cooking With Charcoal

To start charcoal fires make and use fire starters or a starter can.
Charcoal starts slowly. Allow at least 30 minutes before fire is ready to
use. To start charcoal use one of the following methods:

   * Place small twigs or fire starters close together as a base. Leave an
     air space beneath starters. Place charcoal on top of this. Light the
     fire starters, and gradually add a few more briquets, one at a time.
   * Use a starter can.

Charcoal will be grey-white in the daylight and red at night when ready.

STARTER CAN

Cut both ends from a one gallon can, or large juice can. Make vent holes
with a pop can opener around one end of the large can. To use, place can
inside grill or on a pan or tray, crumple three full size sheets of
newspaper into balls. Place newspaper in bottom of starter can or fill it
half way with twigs. Cover with charcoal. Light the newspaper rough the vent
holes. When charcoal is glowing, remove can with a pair of pliers. One
charcoal briquette equals 40 degrees of temperature.

CHARCOAL STOVE

You need:

   * Tin can (#10 or larger)
   * Roll-type can opener
   * Punch opener
   * Wire for handle
   * Three pieces sturdy wire screen

1. Remove top of can with roll-type can opener. Punch airholes with punch
opener around top and bottom of can.

2. Stick ends of wire through two of the holes at top and twist to make a
handle.

3. Push wire screen half way down into can to make a grate. This holds
charcoal near top for cooking and keeps air under charcoal. To keep screen
from lipping, cul second piece of screen into a coil, and put between grate
screen and bottom of stove.

  1. Make a stove top out of the third piece of wire screen. This supports
     your hamburger or the cook pot.

TO USE CHARCOAL STOVE:

Set the stove on cleared ground and put tinder on the grate. When tinder is
burning briskly, drop charcoal into fire. Swing the stove by the handle now
and then to keep the charcoal burning.

VAGABOND STOVE

You need:

   * #10 tin can
   * Pair of tin snips
   * Gloves
   * Roll-type can opener
   * Punch opener
   * Hammer

1. Remove lid from tin can using roll-type can opener. This open end will be
the bottom of your stove.

2. Cut door in stove. Wearing gloves, take the tin snips and cut from the
open end two slits three inches apart and three inches long. Bend this piece
of tin back into can and hammer it flat.

3. Punch with the punch opener two or three small holes at the top of the
can on the side opposite the door. These are your air holes and serve as a
chimney.

TO USE VAGABOND STOVE:

Find a level spot for the stove so food will not run over the side. If stove
is not level, put a twig under the low edge.

Press the stove in the dirt so that it makes a ring. Then put it aside. Make
a small fire of twigs in the ring. Keep fire small but steady. You can also
use a Buddy Burner. (See directions for making.)

Put the stove over the twig fire or Buddy Burner. The stove will get very
hot so do not touch it.

The first time you use your stove you will have to wipe the finish off the
tin can after the stove has heated up. Hold stove with a pot holder and wipe
off with a paper towel.

BUDDY BURNER

A Buddy burner is fuel and can be used with a vagabond stove. It is also
good emergency fuel to have on hand if your stove at home should not work.
You can use it in a driveway or an inside fireplace or when you cannot have
an open fire. The smoke is very black so do not use it in a room.

You need: A shallow tin can (tuna or cat/dog food)

   * Corrugated cardboard, cut in strips just a little narrower than depth
     of can
   * Paraffin, in a tin can
   * Lid from a larger can
   * Pot of water on stove

1. Roll cardboard into a coil that fits loosely into the can.

2. Melt the paraffin. Paraffin should always be melted in a tin can set in a
pot of water on the stove. Use low heat. Melt small amounts at a time. The
vapor given off by the melting paraffin might start to burn, so have a lid
from a larger tin can on hand to smother any fire.

3. Fill shallow can almost to the top with melted paraffin.

4. Let the paraffin harden. Now you have made a Buddy burner.

You can make a Buddy burner using sawdust instead of cardboard. Fill the tin
can with sawdust and pour in paraffin. You may have to use "wicks" in this
to start the burning easier.

TO USE A BUDDY BURNER:

Light the top of the Buddy burner with a match. Now you can cook on your
vagabond stove. Never cook directly on the Buddy burner because the smoke is
black and sooty.

Place the vagabond stove over the Buddy burner.

Put the fire out by lifting the stove off and smothering the flame with a
No. 10 tin can lid or any flat surface larger than the Buddy burner. Use a
pot holder to lift the stove, or knock the stove over with a stick. The
paraffin will be hot and liquid, so wait until it hardens and cools before
you pick it up.

FOIL COOKERY

Foil Cooking Hints

Use two layers of light-weight, or one layer of heavy duty aluminum foil.
Foil should be large enough to go around food and allow for crimping the
edges in a tight seal. This will keep the juices and steam in. This wrap is
know as the "drugstore" wrap.

Drugstore Wrap

Use heavy foil three times the width of the food. Fold over and roll up the
leading edges. Then roll sides for a steamproof seal.

A shallow bed of glowing coals that will last the length of cooking time is
necessary.

Cooking Times:

Hamburger: 8-12 minutes, Carrots: 15-20 minutes

Chicken pieces: 20-30 minutes, Whole Apples: 20-30 minutes

Hotdogs: 5-10 minutes, Sliced potatoes 10-15 minutes

FOIL DINNER

Lay slices of potatoes, onion, and carrots on a sheet of heavy-duty foil
then place hamburger patty on top. Cover with slices of potato, onion, and
carrots. Season with butter, salt and pepper. Cook 20-30 minutes over hot
coals, turning twice during cooking.

CARDBOARD BOX OVEN

A cardboard box will make an oven. Cut off the flaps so that the box has
four straight sides and bottom. The bottom of the box will be the top of the
oven.

Cover the box inside and out COMPLETELY with foil, placing shiny side out.

To use the oven, place the pan with food to be baked on a footed grill over
the lit charcoal briquets. The grill should be raised about ten inches above
the charcoal. Set the cardboard oven over the food and charcoal. Prop up one
end of the oven with a pebble to provide the air charcoal needs to burn - or
cut air vents along the lower edge of the oven. Control the baking
temperature of the oven by the number of charcoal briquets used. Each
briquette supplies 40 degrees of heat (a 360 degree temperature will take 9
briquets).

Experiment! Build an oven to fit your pans - or your menu: Bake bread,
brownies, roast chicken, pizza or a coffee cake. Construct a removable oven
top or oven door. Punch holes on opposite sides of the oven and run coat
hanger wire through to make a grill to hold baking pans. Try the oven over
the coals of a campfire.

RECIPES

ALUMINUM EGGS (FOIL BREAKFAST)

   * Sausage
   * Egg
   * Hash brown potatoes
   * Salt, pepper and spices to taste

Place potatoes, scrambled egg (doesn't need to be cooked) sausage patty and
spices in foil. Wrap securely. Place on coals for 15 minutes.

EGG ON A RAFT (VAGABOND STOVE)

   * Bread
   * Egg
   * Salt and pepper

Grease the cooking surface of the stove. Cut two inch hole in a slice of
bread. Place bread on burner and break egg into the hole. Season and turn
over once while cooking.

AZTEC TOOTHPICKS

Heat a white flour tortilla in skillet or top of vagabond stove. Spread
cream cheese on tortilla; sprinkle on brown sugar and cinnamon. Roll up
tortilla and pig out. Great breakfast, sweet roll or night time snack.

FRENCH TOAST (VAGABOND STOVE)

   * 3 eggs
   * 1/2 cup milk
   * 1 tablespoon sugar
   * 4 slices bread
   * Butter, syrup, jam or powdered sugar

Beat eggs, milk and sugar together with a fork. Grease the top of a hot
vagabond stove with margarine. Dip both sides of a piece of bread in egg
mixture, and lay it on the stove. Be careful that the fire is not too hot.
When bottom browns, turn the toast over with a fork or turner. You may need
more margarine. When the second side is brown, remove the toast to a plate.

VIENNA TOAST

Make a jelly sandwich. Beat two eggs per person (4 pieces of toast). Add a
little sugar, cinnamon and milk or water. Dip sandwich in egg mixture, fry
the sandwich like french toast. Dip fried sandwich in (or sprinkle on)
powdered sugar instead of syrup. Tastes like a giant jelly donut.

PUNCH DONUTS

   * Canned biscuits
   * Cooking oil
   * Cocoa
   * Jello
   * Sugar (white, brown, powdered, w/wo cinnamon)

Take a biscuit, punch hole through it with finger. Shape into donut shape.
Drop into hot oil. Flip over when brown. Remove from oil, dip into sugar,
cocoa or jello. Eat slowly, they are really hot.

SAUSAGE BALLS

   * 1 lb sausage
   * 3 cups bisquick
   * 1 8 oz jar Cheese Whiz or shredded cheese

Combine sausage (cooked), bisquick and cheese; shape into balls. Bake in
preheated 300 degree oven for 25 minutes or until lightly browned.

NELSON'S STEW

   * Box of macaroni and cheese
   * 1 can of chunky ham

Heat water to boiling. Add macaroni and cook until soft. Follow directions
on box. Crumble can of chunky ham into mixture, mix thoroughly. This is very
easy. Feeds 2 scouts per box of macaroni and cheese, 1 can of ham can be
mixed with each 2 boxes of macaroni.

CAMP STROGANOFF

   * 1-1/2 to 2 pounds ground beef
   * Onion soup mix
   * 2-3 tablespoons of ketchup
   * 1 cup sour cream
   * 1 can cream of mushroom soup
   * Noodles

Bring pot of water to a rolling boil and cook noodles until done. Brown meat
and drain off grease. Add remaining ingredients and simmer until meat is
tender. If necessary, thin sauce with a little milk. Serve over cooked
noodles.

TACO CASSEROLE

   * 2 pounds hamburger
   * 6 tortillas
   * cheese grated
   * 2 cloves garlic, minced
   * 2 cans enchilada sauce
   * 1 small can tomato sauce

Brown meat and garlic. Add enchilada sauce and tomato sauce. Simmer for 30
minutes. Tear tortillas and layer pan with tortillas, meat, cheese. Repeat
with cheese on top. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes.

DON'S HAWAIIAN DELIGHT

In a square piece of heavy duty aluminum foil place enough of each of the
following to make one serving:

   * Sliced ham
   * Sweet potatoes
   * Carrots
   * Pineapple

Surround the ham slices with the other ingredients on the foil then add 1
tablespoon of syrup or honey. Fold using "drugstore" wrap to hold in the
juice. Cook package on hot coals for approximately 15 minutes on each side.

PASTA ITALIANO BAKE

   * 1 lb ground beef
   * 1/4 cup chopped onion
   * 1/4 cup chopped green pepper
   * 1 garlic clove, minced
   * 1 6 oz can tomato paste
   * 1/2 cup water
   * 1 teaspoon salt
   * 1/2 teaspoon oregano leaves
   * 2 cups (4 oz) noodles, cooked, drained
   * 1/4 cup chopped parsley
   * 1/2 cup Miracle Whip salad dressing
   * 3/4 cup Kraft grated parmesan cheese
   * 2 eggs, beaten

Brown meat, drain. Add onion, green pepper and garlic; cook until tender.
Stir in tomato paste, water and seasonings. Cover; simmer 15 minutes.
Combine noodles and parsley; toss lightly. Combine salad dressing, 1/2 cup
cheese and eggs; mix well. Layer noodles and meat mixture in Dutch Oven; top
with remaining cheese. Bake for approximately 40 minutes. 6 servings.

CORN CASSEROLE

   * 1 can whole corn with juice
   * 1 can cream style corn
   * 1/2 cup melted butter
   * 1 package Jiffy corn bread mix
   * 1 cup sour cream
   * 2 eggs
   * 1 cup cheddar cheese

Mix all ingredients together, except cheese. Bake at 350 degrees for 25-30
minutes. Add cheese on top and bake for 8-10 minutes more.

CHICKEN BREASTS

   * 8 chicken breasts
   * 1 jar or package dried beef slices
   * 8 slices bacon
   * Salt and pepper to taste
   * 1 can Cream of Mushroom soup
   * 1 small carton sour cream

Bone the chicken breasts and roll one slice bacon around each. Place dried
beef slices in bottom of Dutch oven and lay bacon-wrapped chicken breasts on
top. Salt and pepper to taste. Pour mushroom soup and sour cream over
breasts. Bake for approximately 50-65 minutes until chicken is tender.

SAUSAGE-RICE OVEN DISH

   * 2 1/2 lbs. ground sausage
   * 1 medium green pepper, chopped
   * 1 medium onion, chopped
   * 1 cup celery, chopped
   * 2 cups rice, cooked as to directions on box
   * 3 packages dry chicken noodle soup mix
   * 1 small can pimentos, chopped
   * 1 can cream of chicken soup
   * 1 package almonds, slivered

Brown sausage and drain. Add green pepper, onion and celery and simmer in
open Dutch Oven for 15 minutes. Add cooked rice and dry soup mix. Add
pimentos, cream of chicken soup and almonds and bake. (You can also use Wild
Rice)

BBQ PORK CHOPS DUTCH OVEN

   * 6 Pork chops (You can also use chicken)
   * 1 tablespoon cooking oil
   * Salt and pepper to taste
   * 3/4 cup catsup
   * 1 8 oz cola drink

Brown meat with cooking oil in Dutch Oven. Mix catsup and cola with salt and
pepper and pour into oven over meat. Bake until done. (Should be gooey)

EASY MEAT LOAF

   * 2 pounds ground beef
   * 1 small can evaporated milk or 1/2 cup milk
   * 2 packages dried onion soup mix

Mix all ingredients together and form loaf in Dutch oven. Bake approximately
50 to 60 minutes.

TASTY BEEF ROAST

   * 1 3 lb to 5 lb beef roast
   * 1 can cream of mushroom soup
   * 1 package dry onion soup mix

Brown roast. Pour 1/2 can mushroom soup around meat. Pour onion soup mix
over meat, then the remaining mushroom soup over all. Let bake to desired
doneness. Approximately 30 to 45 minutes to pound.

DUTCH OVEN ENCHILADA CASSEROLE

   * 2 lbs ground beef
   * 1 teaspoon salt
   * 1 large onion, chopped
   * 1 can tomato soup (10 3/4 ozs)
   * 2 cans enchilada mild sauce (10 ozs)
   * 1 can water (10 ozs)
   * 1 package of corn tortillas
   * 1/2 lb grated or sliced cheese

Brown together beef, salt and onion. Add tomato soup, enchilada sauce and
water to beef mixture and simmer together. Place 3 or 4 corn tortillas on
bottom of Dutch Oven. Remove 3/4's of the meat mixture from pan, and place
over top of tortillas. Add another layer of tortillas. Add a 1/4 lb of
cheese on top. Add another layer of meat mixture. Place another layer of
meat mixture. Place another layer of tortillas. Sprinkle with remaining
cheese. Place like over Dutch Oven and let simmer until it appears to be
done. Approximately 30-40 minutes.

FRESH TOMATO SAUCE PICANTE

   * 1 medium size tomato, finely chopped
   * 1 small onion, finely chopped (1/4 cup)
   * 6 springs cilantro or Italian parsley (leaves only), finely chopped (1
     tablespoon)
   * 3 serrano chilies, seeded and finely chopped; or 1 can green chili,
     finely chopped
   * 1/2 teaspoon salt
   * 1/2 cup water

Combine tomato, onion, cilantro, chilies, salt and water in a bowl. Cover;
let stand about 30 minutes before serving. This sauce is best eaten the same
day, as it soon loses it crispness and flavor.

TAMALE PIE

   * 1 1/2 lbs. ground beef
   * 1 clove garlic, minced
   * 1 onion, coarsely chopped
   * 1 green pepper, cut in 1 inch squares
   * 1 can (1 pound) tomatoes, cut up
   * 1/2 cup stuffed green olives (or black olives), coarsely chopped
   * 1 to 2 teaspoons chili powder
   * 1 teaspoon salt
   * Freshly ground pepper to taste
   * 1 package (11 ounces) corn muffin mix
   * 1 can (8 oz) cream corn
   * 1/3 cup milk
   * 1/2 cup shredded cheddar cheese

Brown ground beef in Dutch Oven, drain excess fat off. Add garlic, onion and
green pepper and saute' 5 minutes or until tender. Add tomatoes, olives,
chili powder, salt and pepper and simmer 10 minutes. In a bowl stir together
muffin mix, corn and milk until evenly moistened. Spoon over ground beef
mixture and sprinkle with cheese. Bake at 400 degrees for approximately 20
minutes, or until browned.

EASY SAUSAGE PIZZA BAKE

   * 1 lb pork sausage
   * 3/4 cup chopped onion
   * 3 cups Bisquick baking mix
   * 1 1/2 cups water
   * 1 jar (15 1/2 oz) thick spaghetti sauce
   * 1 can (4 oz) mushroom stems and pieces, drained (if desired)
   * 1 can (2 1/4 oz) sliced ripe olives, drained
   * 1 green pepper, cut into thin rings
   * 2 cups shredded cheddar cheese

Grease the inside of the Dutch Oven. Cook and stir sausage and onion in
skillet until sausage is brown; drain. Mix baking mix and water until
thoroughly moistened; spread batter in oven. Spread spaghetti sauce
carefully over batter; top with sausage mixture and the remaining
ingredients. Bake until crust is golden brown. Approximately 25-30 minutes.

BAKED SPAGHETTI

   * 1 large onion, chopped
   * 1 clove garlic, minced
   * 4 tablespoons shortening
   * 1/2 lb ground beef
   * 2 cups water
   * 2 cans tomato soup
   * 2 teaspoons chili powder
   * 1/2 lb uncooked spaghetti
   * 1 cup sharp cheese (grated)

Cook onion and garlic in shortening in Dutch Oven. Add beef and cook,
stirring occasionally, to keep meat particles separated. Drain excess grease
off. Mix in the soup, water and chili powder and cook a few minutes longer.
Break spaghetti into inch pieces and stir into sauce until all covered. Bake
for about 1 hour, but stir approximately every 15 minutes. Then add cheese
to top. Bake another 15 minutes.

HANOVER BRISKET

   * 4 or 5 lb brisket
   * 1 can of consomme
   * 1 (10 oz) bottle (lite) soy sauce
   * 1/4 cup lemon juice
   * Garlic to taste
   * 1 tablespoon liquid smoke

Combine last 5 ingredients, pour over meat and marinate overnight. Place
meat and marinade in a covered pan and bake at 300 degrees for 3 hours for 3
& 4 lbs and 4 hours for 5 lbs. Baste occasionally during baking. Take out
and slice. Then replace it in the pan and pour some of the marinade over
brisket.

Increase the temperature to 350 degrees and continue baking for another
hour.

CINNAMON-RAISIN ROLL-UPS

   * 2 cups Bisquick baking mix
   * 1/2 cup raisins (can omit)
   * 1/2 cup dairy sour cream
   * 3 tablespoons milk
   * 2 tablespoons margarine, softened
   * 1/4 cup packed brown sugar
   * 1/4 cup finely chopped nuts
   * 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
   * 2 tablespoons margarine, melted
   * Granulated sugar

Spray Pam on the inside of Dutch Oven. Mix baking mix, raisins, sour cream
and milk; beat 20 strokes. Smooth into ball on floured aluminum foil or wax
paper. Knead 10 times. Roll into rectangle, approximately 12 x 10 inches.
Spread with softened margarine (can use squeeze margarine also). Mix brown
sugar, nuts and cinnamon; sprinkle over dough. Roll up tightly, beginning at
12" side. Pinch edge into roll. Cut into 12 slices. Place slices, cut sides
down, in the bottom of Dutch Oven. Brush melted margarine over the tops,
sprinkle with granulated sugar. Bake until golden, about 13 minutes. Top
with margarine if desired.

HERB BUBBLE RING

   * 1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
   * 1 tablespoon parsley flakes
   * 1/2 cup dried basil leaves
   * 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder
   * 1/2 teaspoon paprika
   * 3 cups Bisquick mix
   * 3/4 cup dairy sour cream
   * 1/4 cup milk
   * 1/4 cup margarine, melted

Spray Dutch Oven with Pam, or line with aluminum foil. Mix cheese, parsley,
basil, garlic powder and paprika; reserve. Mix baking mix, sour cream and
milk until soft dough forms; beat vigorously 30 seconds. Gently smooth dough
in ball on floured aluminum foil or wax paper. Knead 10 times. Shape into 1
inch balls. Dip each ball into melted margarine, then roll in cheese mixture
to coat. Arrange balls about 1/4 inch apart in layers in oven. Sprinkle any
remaining cheese mixture over top. Bake until golden brown, about 20
minutes.

SOUR CREAM ONION SQUARES

   * 1 large onion, sliced
   * 2 tablespoons margarine
   * 1 egg
   * 3/4 cup dairy sour cream
   * 1/4 teaspoon seasoned salt
   * 1 cup milk
   * 3 cups Bisquick baking mix

Saute' onion in margarine until soft. Beat egg in a small bowl; stir in sour
cream until blended; add onions and seasoned salt. Stir milk into baking mix
to form a soft dough; turn into a lightly sprayed (with Pam) or aluminum
lined Dutch Oven. Bake for approximately 20 minutes or until top is set.

BISCUITS

   * 4 cups flour
   * 2 tablespoons baking powder
   * 1 teaspoon salt
   * 1/2 cup shortening
   * 1 1/2 cups milk or water

Combine dry ingredients. Work in shortening with a knife or fingers until
evenly distributed. Add milk gradually, mixing lightly and quickly until
there is no dry flour in dish. Pinch off desired amount for each biscuit and
bake.

SOPAPILLAS

   * 4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
   * 3 teaspoons baking powder
   * 1 teaspoon salt
   * 2 tablespoons sugar
   * 2 tablespoons vegetable shortening
   * 1 cup milk
   * Vegetable oil for frying

Mix flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into a large bowl. Cut in
shortening until mixture resembles cornmeal. Stir in milk until mixture
forms a firm dough. Knead dough on lightly floured aluminum foil or waxed
paper just until smooth. Cover; let rest 20 minutes. Roll out to 1/4 inch
thickness; cut into squares or diamonds. Heat oil in a Dutch Oven until hot.
Fry sopapillas, a few at a time, turning often so they fry evenly until
golden brown. Remove from oil with slotted spoon to paper towels to drain.
Serve hot with butter & honey or sprinkled with cinnamon sugar.

IMPOSSIBLE PECAN PIE

   * 1 1/2 cups chopped pecans
   * 3/4 cup packed brown sugar
   * 3/4 cup milk
   * 3/4 cup light or dark corn syrup
   * 1/2 cup Bisquick baking mix
   * 1/4 cup margarine or butter, softened
   * 4 eggs
   * 1 1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Grease pie plate. Sprinkle pecans in plate. Beat remaining ingredients until
smooth. Pour into pie plate. Put into Dutch Oven and bake until knife, when
inserted into center, comes out clean. Approximately 50-60 minutes.

PINEAPPLE UPSIDE DOWN CAKE

   * 1 can pineapple (6 oz)
   * 1/2 cup pecans
   * 1/2 cup brown sugar
   * 1 square margarine
   * 2 yellow cake mixes, or 3 golden pound cake mixes

Mix cake mixes according to directions.

Line the Dutch Oven with aluminum foil, place oven onto the heat, level it
and melt the margarine in the oven. When melted, add the brown sugar, then
the pineapple slices, then the pecans. This will be the glaze.

Pour cake on top of glaze. This dessert doesn't require much heat on the
bottom, just enough to brown the glaze - about 8 briquets should be plenty.
Bake for approximately 25 minutes. Check it every 15 minutes and when golden
brown, test it to see if it is done. If it is, take off the heat and lift
the cake out of the oven by the aluminum foil. Put a pan or board on it and
then turn it over quickly so that the glaze is on top. Remove the foil.

WHEN BAKING IN A DUTCH OVEN WITH A CAKE PAN OR PIE PAN, PUT 1 INCH DIAMETER
FOIL BALLS IN THE BOTTOM OF THE OVEN TO LIFT THE PAN OFF THE BOTTOM TO KEEP
THE FOOD FROM BURNING AND DISTRIBUTE THE HEAT MORE EVENLY.

IMPOSSIBLE PUMPKIN PIE

   * 3/4 cup sugar
   * 1/2 cup Bisquick baking mix
   * 2 tablespoons margarine
   * 1 can (13 oz) evaporated milk
   * 2 eggs
   * 1 can (16 oz) pumpkin
   * 2 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
   * 1 teaspoon vanilla

Grease pie plate. Beat all ingredients until smooth. Pour into pie plate.
Put into Dutch Oven and bake until knife inserted in center comes out clean.
Approximately 50-60 minutes.

EASY ICE CREAM

   * 1 (14 oz) can Eagle Brand Sweetened Condensed Milk
   * 2/3 cup chocolate flavored syrup
   * 2 cups (1 pint) whipping cream

Put into small cleaned coffee can, put lid on. Put down inside a 3 lb coffee
can. Put ice and rock salt around it. Put lid on large can. Roll can, stop
and drain water out, and put more ice and rock salt in. Continue until firm.
